# [IBM DevOps and Software Engineering](https://www.coursera.org/professional-certificates/devops-and-software-engineering?)

## About this Professional Certificate
* DevOps professionals are in high demand! According to a recent GitLab report,  DevOps skills are expected to grow 122% over the next five years,  making it one of the fastest growing skills in the workforce.
* This certificate will equip you with the key concepts and technical know-how to build your skills and knowledge of DevOps practices, tools and technologies and prepare you for an entry-level role in Software Engineering.
* The courses in this program will help you develop skill sets in a variety of DevOps philosophies and methodologies including Agile Development, Scrum Methodology, Cloud Native Architecture, Behavior and Test-Driven Development, and Zero Downtime Deployments.
* You will learn to program with the Python language and Linux shell scripts,  create projects in GitHub, containerize and orchestrate your applications using Docker, Kubernetes & OpenShift,  compose applications with microservices, employ serverless technologies,  perform continuous integration and delivery (CI/CD), develop testcases,  ensure your code is secure, and monitor & troubleshoot your cloud deployments.
* Guided by experts at IBM, you will be prepared for success.​ Labs and projects in this certificate program are designed to equip job-ready hands-on skills that will help you launch a new career in a highly in-demand field.
* This professional certificate is suitable for both - those who have none or some programming experience, as well as those with and without college degrees.

## Courses in this Professional Certificate
### [Course 1: Introduction to DevOps](./M1_Introduction_to_DevOps/README.md)
DevOps skills are in demand! DevOps skills are expected to be one of the fastest-growing skills in the workforce. This course can be a first step in obtaining those skills. Introduction to DevOps explores DevOps as a cultural movement, including building a business case for DevOps, the essentials of DevOps, and a brief history of DevOps. You will learn new ways of thinking, working, organizing, and measuring to fully gain the benefits of DevOps. You will learn how breaking down silos and organizing developers and operators into single cross-functional teams is necessary for truly adopting DevOps. Having everyone contributing and everyone being responsible for success is at the heart of DevOps. By thinking from a DevOps perspective, you will be able to build better products for your customer. You will view DevOps from a business perspective as well as for becoming a DevOps practitioner. You will see how building a culture of shared responsibility and transparency is the foundation of every high-performing DevOps teams. You will have an opportunity to explore the concepts of infrastructure for Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery. You will be able to use actionable measures that apply directly to decision-making and will ultimately result in continuous improvement. This course is designed for those new to DevOps as well as those looking to increase their current knowledge of DevOps.

### [Course 2: Introduction to Cloud Computing](./M2_Introduction_To_Cloud_Computing/README.md)
This course introduces you to the core concepts of cloud computing. You gain the foundational knowledge required for understanding cloud computing from a business perspective as also for becoming a cloud practitioner. You understand the definition and essential characteristics of cloud computing, its history, the business case for cloud computing, and emerging technology usecases enabled by cloud. We introduce you to some of the prominent service providers of our times (e.g. AWS, Google, IBM, Microsoft, etc.) the services they offer, and look at some case studies of cloud computing across industry verticals. You learn about the various cloud service models (IaaS, PaaS, SaaS) and deployment models (Public, Private, Hybrid) and the key components of a cloud infrastructure (VMs, Networking, Storage - File, Block, Object, CDN). We also cover emergent cloud trends and practices including - Hybrid Multicloud, Microservices, Serverless, DevOps, Cloud Native and Application Modernization. And we go over the basics of cloud security, monitoring, and different job roles in the cloud industry. Even though this course does not require any prior cloud computing or programming experience, by the end of the course, you will have created your own account on IBM Cloud and gained some hands-on experience by provisioning a cloud service and working with it. This course is suitable for a large variety of audiences - whether you are an executive / manager / student who wants to become familiar with cloud computing terminology and concepts, or someone who wants foundational grounding in cloud computing to start a career in this field or become a cloud practitioner - such as a cloud engineer, developer, analyst, etc. The completion of this course also makes you eligible to earn the Cloud Computing Core IBM digital badge. More information about the badge can be found here: [https://www.youracclaim.com/org/ibm/badge/introduction-to-cloud-computing](https://www.youracclaim.com/org/ibm/badge/introduction-to-cloud-computing)

### [Course 3: Introduction to Agile Development and Scrum](./M3_Introduction_to_Agile_Development_and_Scrum/README.md)
After successfully completing this course, you will be able to embrace the Agile concepts of adaptive planning, iterative development, and continuous improvement - resulting in early deliveries and value to customers. This course will benefit anyone who wants to get started with working the Agile way. It is particularly suitable for IT practitioners such as software developers, development managers, project managers, product managers, and executives. You will learn to apply Agile practices derived from lean manufacturing concepts, like test-driven development. Learn how a scrum team functions. Learn how to write good user stories and track your team’s progress using a kanban board. Create and refine a product backlog collaboratively with the team and the customer, in a flexible and blameless culture. This approach will lead you to higher levels of efficiency, with the ability to plan and execute sprints with your development team, measuring success with actionable metrics. This course is about more than facts and processes. It is about working collaboratively on a self-organizing team, coached by a scrum master, and building what is needed, rather than simply following a plan. Developed and taught by an experienced Agile practitioner, the course includes hands-on practice through realistic scenario-based labs using GitHub and ZenHub.

### [Course 4: Hand-on Introduction to Linux Commands and Shell Scripting]
This mini-course provides a practical introduction to commonly used Linux / UNIX shell commands and teaches you basics of Bash shell scripting to automate a variety of tasks. The course includes both video-based lectures as well as hands-on labs to practice and apply what you learn. You will have no-charge access to a virtual Linux server that you can access through your web browser, so you don't need to download and install anything to perform the labs. In this course you will work with general purpose commands like id, date, uname, ps, top, echo, man; directory manageent commands such as pwd, cd, mkdir, rmdir, find, df; file management commands like cat, wget, more, head, tail, cp, mv, touch, tar, zip, unzip; access control command chmod; text processing commands - wc, grep, tr; as well as networking commands - hostname, ping, ifconfig and curl. You will create simple to more advanced shell scripts that involve Metacharacters, Quoting, Variables, Command substitution, I/O Redirection, Pipes & Filters, and Command line arguments. You will also schedule cron jobs using crontab. This course is ideal for data engineers, data scientists, software developers, and cloud practitioners who want to get familiar with frequently used commands on Linux, MacOS and other Unix-like operating systems as well as get started with creating shell scripts.

### [Course 5: Getting Started with Git and GitHub]
Collaboration and social coding are crucial parts of contemporary Software Engineering practices and the DevOps culture. In this course, you’ll be introduced to collaborative version control and popular Git platforms. You will explore key Git concepts such as branching and repositories, as well as the use of Git commands. You will also learn and practice various Git concepts such as forking, cloning and merging workflows. You will learn to use GitHub to work effectively as a team, and perform common Git operations, such as Pull Requests, from both the Web UI and command line. Developed and taught by experienced IBM practitioners, in this course you’ll gain vital skills and hands-on experience using Git and GitHub. Each module contains hands-on labs for you to apply and practice what you learn. The course wraps up with a final project where you will start building your portfolio by creating and sharing a public/open-source GitHub project. All hands-on activities in this course can be performed using web-browser based tools and interfaces. Installation of any specialized software is NOT required on your own computer in order to complete the course.

### [Course 6: Python for Data Science, AI & Development](./M6_Python_for_Data_Science_AI_Development/README.md)
Kickstart your learning of Python for data science, as well as programming in general, with this beginner-friendly introduction to Python. Python is one of the world’s most popular programming languages, and there has never been greater demand for professionals with the ability to apply Python fundamentals to drive business solutions across industries. This course will take you from zero to programming in Python in a matter of hours—no prior programming experience necessary! You will learn Python fundamentals, including data structures and data analysis, complete hands-on exercises throughout the course modules, and create a final project to demonstrate your new skills. By the end of this course, you’ll feel comfortable creating basic programs, working with data, and solving real-world problems in Python. You’ll gain a strong foundation for more advanced learning in the field, and develop skills to help advance your career. This course can be applied to multiple Specialization or Professional Certificate programs. Completing this course will count towards your learning in any of the following programs: IBM Applied AI Professional Certificate Applied Data Science Specialization IBM Data Science Professional Certificate Upon completion of any of the above programs, in addition to earning a Specialization completion certificate from Coursera, you’ll also receive a digital badge from IBM recognizing your expertise in the field.

### [Course 7: Python Project for AI & Application Development]
This mini-course is intended to apply foundational Python skills by implementing different techniques to develop applications and AI powered solutions. Assume the role of a developer and unit test and package an application with the help of multiple hands-on labs. After completing this course you will have acquired the confidence to begin developing AI enabled applications using Python, build and run unit tests, and package the application for distribution. PRE-REQUISITE: **Python for Data Science, AI and Development** course from IBM is a pre-requisite for this project course. Please ensure that before taking this course you have either completed the Python for Data Science, AI and Development course from IBM or have equivalent proficiency in working with Python and data. NOTE: This course is not intended to teach you Python and does not have too much instructional content. It is intended for you to apply prior Python knowledge.

### [Course 8: Introduction to Containers w/ Docker, Kubernetes & OpenShift](./M8_Introduction_to_Containers_with_Docker_Kubernetes_and_OpenShift/README.md)
After completing this course, you will be able to build applications in a cloud native way using containerization tools and technologies, and deploy your applications in any public, private or hybrid cloud at incredible scale. This course introduces you to containers and explains how containers differ from virtual machines. It also covers the importance of containers in cloud computing, as well as the emerging ecosystem of related technologies such as Docker, Kubernetes, Red Hat OpenShift, and Istio. Throughout the course you will apply what you learn with hands-on labs. From getting started with Docker, to orchestration and scaling with Kubernetes, and simplifying deployments with OpenShift. The labs are performed using your web browser on IBM Cloud and Skills Network Labs environments, that are made available to you at no charge. in the project at the end of the course you will build a container image and deploy and scale it on Cloud using OpenShift. Containerization is likely the most significant invention in IT since the introduction of virtualization. Open source projects like Kubernetes and products like Red Hat OpenShift have become standards for people looking to deploy and manage containers at scale. Everyone from small startups to large multinational corporations is transitioning to these technologies, and they are looking for people who are skilled in these areas. This course is of interest to anyone who wants to be a cloud practitioner - cloud developers, cloud architects, cloud system engineers, devops engineers, cloud networking specialists and many other roles. The material also serves the needs of those who perform the tasks of advising, consulting, building, moving and managing cloud solutions. There are no hard requirements needed to be able to take this course other than basic computer literacy, and a foundation level understanding of Cloud Computing.

### [Course 9: Application Development using Microservices and Serverless]
Are you a developer ready to explore serverless application development? This intermediate-level course is for you! Begin with an understanding of how serverless benefits developers, learn when to use serverless programming, serverless deployment models, and discover its top use cases and design patterns. You’ll also discover how serverless supports continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD) and microservices integration. Hands-on labs reinforce serverless programming concepts for creation, deployment, and invocation of cloud-based functions—including the deployment of microservices using OpenShift and Istio. Complete the course with the confidence to build a multi-tier web app that uses IBM Cloud Functions, OpenShift, Istio, and more.

### [Course 10: Test and Behavior Driven Development (TDD/BDD)]
This course introduces fundamentals of why automated testing is important, how Test-Driven Development makes you think about the requirements first and how Test-Driven Development can improve your code and save you time. You’ll learn about the various concepts of TDD, and the hands-on lab will enforce the learning of Test-Driven Development. Learn Behavior Driven Development and how BDD can drive customer expectations. You will explore how you can test your acceptance criteria and define the definition of “Done”. Discover how to define requirements, develop executable specifications, and automate acceptance criteria. Finally, you will consolidate your learning with a hands-on BDD lab.

### [Course 11: Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery (CI/CD)]
You will begin by learning Infrastructure as Code and its benefits. You’ll also explore different IaC Platforms and Tools. You will learn about Continuous Integration, its benefits, and some popular tools that are used for Continuous Integration. You will learn about Continuous Delivery, its benefits, how to run test cases, deploy to the cloud, and some popular tools that are used for Continuous Delivery.

### [Course 12: Application Security and Monitoring]
This course describes security best practices that developers follow when developing applications. It also teaches you how to effectively monitor and troubleshoot applications using related tools. You will complete a final project in which you will deploy and update an application you have created using your newly acquired monitoring skills. You will publish this project through your GitHub repository to share your skills with your peers and prospective employers.

### [Course 13: DevOps Capstone Project]
In this course you will apply your skills and knowledge acquired during previous courses in the PC to demonstrate your proficiency in DevOps practices by developing, testing, deploying, monitoring, and enhancing a secure microservices-based application on Cloud, over the course of several sprints, using a variety of Agile, Cloud Native, and CI/CD technologies and tools.
